[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Mathematical model of a transformer. Understanding transformers requires a solid grasp of the mathematical principles that govern their operation.

This slide presents the self-attention mechanism,

which enables the model to weigh different parts of an input sequence based on relevance, eliminating the need for the recurrence.

So the key mathematical operations include key query value transformations that allow attention to be distributed across input elements.

And again this method eliminates recurrence.

So we're changing. We're replacing the required neural networks with general attention and other types of attention.

Another method scale dot product attention, computes similarity scores between tokens and positional encodings,

which preserves the order of the sequences. Since self-attention inherently lacks temporal dependencies because in order none would store temporal

difference uh dependencies to some order it transformers by looking at the alignment scores with the query,

and the key would miss this. So when we positionally encode the, uh tokens,

we combine the information to the actual relevance and transformers efficiently model sequential data without suffering from the limitations of RNA.

There are many, many positive aspects of a transformer, but the drawback is the memory footprint the computation.

We are basically losing the efficiency of RNA, and we are opening up the memory at the cost of the length of the sequence.

If the input sequence is six to 4K, that's 6 to 40 times larger memory footprint compared to a recurrent neural network.

Outline will be. Sequence to sequence models.

Introduction to Transformers. Attention mechanism.

Comparing attention models, mathematical insights and applications of Transformers.

We will review all of these will analyze the mathematical models.

We will also demonstrated through Jupyter notebooks.

The module aims to provide both a theoretical understanding and practical applications of transformers.

Like in any other lecture we have in this course.

Now, we have to understand a neural network architecture in order to appreciate the transformers so we can understand the advantages of a transformer.

They outperform RNNs and Grus in terms of scalability and parallelization at the cost of memory footprint.

That's why we need huge GPU memory because of transformers.

But the advantages are immense. Now sequence to sequence models.

These are end to end optimize symbols because a sequence is mapped into another sequence.

And the machine translation example we have translating English or French is a perfect example.

Each sequence is a sequence of tokens. It can be also used in speech to text conversion, automatic text summarization,

and etc. now, sequence to sequence models rely on encoder decoder architectures,

where the encoder compresses the input sequence into a latent representation,

and the decoder reconstructs an output sequence based on this latent space.

This is typical encoding decoding we have seen in auto regressive auto encoder models.

In those cases, the same sequence was being encoding and decoding.

Here the sequences are different. The challenges with traditional sequence to sequence models is that they struggle with long sequences.

Thus the attention mechanisms help. In order to appreciate Transformers, we have to look at recurrent neural networks.

It processes sequential data by maintaining a hidden state that stores past information.

So it has a memory. It is not stateless.

Runs are effective in tasks. As classical machine learning, classical analytics showed.

Speech recognition, time series forecasting and text processing.

But they suffer from vanishing gradient problem.

Very slow training due to the sequential processing.

It is iterative. They cannot leverage parallelization.

But the other thing is the slow training is due to gradients not effectively training fast.

Unlike a convolutional neural network, in a convolutional neural network ten epochs, we can train on everything.

But with recurrent neural networks, even a thousand epochs may not be enough.

The transformer model overcomes these issues with self-attention.

It also allows parallel computation, as we will see now attention to sequence to sequence model.

We have 1 to 1 mapping it. Then it could be like a bigram approach.

Probability of an input sequence. Token probability of an output token.

Given probability of an input token that is 1 to 1 mapping one to many, it could be image captioning, but here the one is a complicated data point.

Write an image. So it doesn't make that much sense because it's not a sequence.

The power of the transformer is in the sequence, processing many to one.

That's very typical. The one would be classification and labels.

A sequence of many tokens is mapped to one classification label.

We will see that and many to many like here.

Many tokens. Too many tokens. It can be machine translation.

It can be generative text. GPT is many to many.

The standard or an on base sequence to sequence models have fixed length bottlenecks here.

The hidden states are captured and the hidden state is transferred to the other side.

Attention mechanism solves this by allowing dynamic weighting of the inputs.

Still, the fixed length bottleneck is here. However, there's an attention mechanism right there.

And then this hidden state is captured in a, let's say, more sophisticated manner.

Encoder decoder framework is is. In this slide we have to mark the start and the ends and anything in between.

For example, the encoder can input a sentence like sentence one marker, sentence two marker, and then sentence three and then end of sequence.

It is possible the sequence mapping will learn those markers as well.

Here it doesn't have to start with the start token, even though it is okay to do it, because the sequence is input in this fashion.

If you use positional embeddings, A will be encoded correctly and as you see, this entire thing is a probability of sequence.

Given probability of sequence, which is a product of the conditionals and V is the encoding of the input sequence.

So I know the encoding here, and I know the output probabilities.

That's how I generate the sequence to sequence mapping.

It's an immensely powerful architecture. Now we have transformer and and models.

Neural networks are de facto because we can we know how to optimize them.

We don't have to build architectures from them. Uh, that not regular transformers are built on.

Self-attention replaces the recurrence and enables parallel processing of the sequences.

What's the drawback? I have to sequence that. I have to see the sequence at once is a fixed vector.

It is not variable in the Jupyter notebook. In this lecture it can input variable length inputs even though the current implementation is fixed.

Vector size. We will look at this later.

Now the other feature is multi-head attention capturing multiple relationships between tokens.

This is kind of analogous to the multiple filters a CNN would have, and that's scalability.

Handling large datasets efficiently Transformers from the basis of Bert, GPT, and T5.

They definitely support modern language understanding and generation tasks.

The need for attention. Attention improves sequence to sequence models by dynamically focusing on relevant input tokens.

Unlike RNN and based attention, self-attention allows global context understanding.

Transformers are vastly superior to arenas because of the attention.

Now we have certain attention mechanisms. When we do imaging at the beginning.

It's like a lookup table, but the embedding is an efficient representation of the input sequence.

Otherwise it's too much. If we have a vocabulary size of 1 million.

I cannot have 1 million of integers getting into the sequence and into the neural network.

Rather, I will convert each of those integers into a fixed size embedding vectors of size.

Let's say 128 1,000,228.

And then I can also positionally encode each token, create another 128 length vectors for each position.

But of course, that's kind of overkill.

Add the positional embeddings in a smaller linear layer, and then either concatenate to the word embeddings or process it further.

We will see these architectures. One example here.

We will look at additive attention. Long multiplicative attention.

The additive attention aligns input output sequences dynamically.

Multiplicative attention is more computationally efficient.

Multi-head attention. And here alphas are attention weights which determine how much focus each input token receives, then computing and outputs.

An air computed by the hidden states, the unfolded RNA in a regular general attention.

We will replace this. And alphas are not the linear layer itself.

Instead, they are learned attention weights computed during the attention mechanism.

But they are not E alignment scores either, because we will compute alignment scores after softmax.

So it will be like probabilities. And then we will add them up including the hidden to make up a context vector.

And every time this context vector is passed to the decoder side.

And the code is also processing the probabilities is a sequence similar to the input sequence.

But what's its advantage? It also receives the context from the input.

So for this context the output probabilities will change.

And this context here you can see on slide seven V is can be considered that context v.

Here is a simpler representation only the encoding of the input sequence.

But you can replace V with anything. If it is context, it's very powerful.

You not only encoded the input sequence, but also looked at the attention.

The relevance of each value, each key, with respect to the query.

Linear layers play a role in computing the alphas in many attention mechanisms like Bodnar long transformer self-attention,

linear layers are generate are used to generate the query Q key and value representations.

The attention weights alphas are then obtained by computing scale dot products or other scoring functions between these representations.

Here's an example. A simple example.

All files are before the normalization. And here is the mathematical model of modern attention.

Compare this these computations with respect to the previous picture.

We have flexible scoring, for instance retention. We have computational efficiency for long attention.

And we have discrete selection instead of computing a weighted sum over all encoder states.

What's the benefit? Well this is distinct nominal discrete.

So even though it's not differentiable because it involves discrete choices, hard attention cannot be trained using standard backpropagation.

But it can be computed by reinforcement learning. Still, it is better in some ways.

It's more efficient. It's computationally cheaper than self-attention.

It avoids summing over all positions, so it could be useful for large sequences.

In addition. It is also interpretable.

100%. It makes explicit choices there is to interpret.

Compared to soft attention. Soft attention. Soft attention would be linear combinations of positions, but hard attention would be explicit.

Like like sparse representation. It is better for certain tasks, perhaps image processing, focusing only specific regions in an image,

for example, or text attends only specific relevant tokens.

Now. You should look at these slides to understand each of the difference.

There are subtle differences and as in many research fields,

they came up with these different attentions, claiming some of these are good for these tasks.

Some of those are good for those tasks. However, if you use general attention, you are fine.

The transformer encoder architecture enhanced the sequence transformation by general attention period multi-head self-attention.

Same thing. Now we will employ feedforward layers and implement layer normalization and residual connect connections if necessary,

but those details will be later covered.

Now the general attention. It refers to a mechanism that dynamically learns how much focus to give to different parts of input sequence.

So general attention in a way assigns importance scores to different input elements based on learned parameters, rather than using a fixed function.

So even the function here is learned how to assign the relevancy.

It is selectively retrieving relevant information from a sequence.

So it is definitely general from that perspective.

Now why general? Because it comes from the flexibility in defining called attention scores are computed.

It is not dot product attention which is simply similarity measure, but it learns the weight matrices to compute the attention scores.

Here is the general attention model.

At the moment it may not make sense what to make up the query key and the value, but here is some semantic definition.

So the query is the representation of the token seeking contextual info.

Key is the representation of tokens being compared against.

And then value is the information to be aggregated based on the attention scores.

Now Multi-head splits shave into multiple heads so it can capture diverse relationships.

Then and of course, like in a CNN with different filters, this is left to the optimizer to catch the dot product and scaling it.

Compute similarity between Q and. It is scaled to avoid large gradients.

And then apply softmax to the a v accordingly.

Softmax makes it probable to like. As we continue.

Here's a table. Think of again.

Q as the search request. So that is also built by the optimizer.

The query comes from the current token. It's the decoder side of the sequence to sequence models or same token is in self-attention.

If you use self-attention, then the query will be same.

With the key. The key is like an index. It matches the information to a query.

Each word in the input has a key representing its contents.

This gives another layer of flexibility. The attention mechanism compares the query with all keys.

So you see, I have multiple keys extracted earlier and currently in that iteration.

And then the value is the actual information. It is basically query times key matrix multiplication.

If the query matches the key, well, then it's a high attention score and the value will be important in the final output.

Then when I pass the value to the context, it will make the decoder.

The coders job much easier. Now multiyear detention.

It's it gets concatenated in the outputs from different attention heads.

Despite this concatenation, hidden size remains the same due to a final linear projection layer.

So what happens in multi fashion? Instead of using just one set of query key value set.

We split the data input into multiple smaller representations and apply self-attention independently in each head.

It's also parallel attention computation. Each head learns different aspects of the input sequence by applying its own set of wq w ki and w q.

G. Each matrix is independent and then we concatenate the attention output of the heads.

So in a way capturing the information and also embedding it.

The linear projection to preserve hidden size. Is done by concatenation.

Converting it to the embedding again. So it will be back to the original size.

Why are we doing this? And again, each head supposedly will capture different aspects.

How many heads should I have? No more than four. The final representation will not increase in size.

So it would be still computationally efficient. And here are implementations a few important things.

This is not the example in the Jupyter notebook.

Here the batch first is true. It's a matter of choice, making the batch first.

True or false? At first can help the computations in terms of mathematical representation.

Though it might help us if you put the batch as the first dimension.

There's not efficiency. The difference between batch first. True or false?

In order to compare this one by one element by element converging into a batch of element by element operations,

batch first might help for the computations. This code is very similar to the notebook provided the code constructor.

We have an embedding dropout linear layer for attention and then context and the attention cell.

There's no general attention here. We're still using the RNA.

And the output is combine all of these and then generate the why wait why linear outputs.

And as you see this is two times. Because the hidden layer is concatenated.

To the. Context vector generated coming from the attention.

And this concatenation is passed through WC, which is of size two.

All the dimensions are hidden size and that's pretty standard.

It's much easier to handle this way.

We should look at this code and then compare the red yellow to the figure and then understand why it's done this way.

But again, this code is very close to the original code anyway.

Now here's a general detection. It's much simpler and much, much larger.

This attention is much larger because there's no RNA. And as you see QV, they are hidden to hidden.

And matrix multiplication is done here to compute the output.

And again this entire. Is.

Uh mapping to the and then. Attention layer encoder decoder.

So we don't have to even implement this part, but leave it to the, uh, neural network module of PyTorch.

Now it is important to have benchmark data.

Glue is an important data set. Uh, they came up with the benchmark to be able to compare the outputs in this fashion.

It is important because we claim one thing, but it may not be true.

And these benchmarks are designed to empirically measure the performance correctly so that when we claim 80% performance in the paper,

it is repeatable.

So, uh, to be able to compare to the other performances in other papers or approaches, single sentence tasks, similarity, um, paraphrase inference.

And this is glue. There is also glue to the test is hidden.

They will give you the training.

But for the glue the training is also available and testing is available in hugging face search for glue and then you will find it immediately.

I also provided links in the Jupyter notebooks. Some of these references are important.

Attention all is all you need. For example.

Rajkot and other ones. That concludes.

Our lecture. Thank you.

