[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
In this particular example notebook, we will look at sequence to sequence learning.

But we will do a real attention neural network.

And this attention neural network is like a transformer.

There is a latent space in between. Uh, the transformer is like an encoder decoder architecture, similar to an encoder,

but auto encoder uses the input sequence again at the output in a transformer architecture or sequence to sequence mapping architecture,

the input sequence and output sequence are different. Before we dive into the example, we should look at the data set.

Examples from glue. This is the original and an from Huggingface.

That's the glue data set. Now it is released fully so you can get to test.

And it's a very useful data set with different problems. We looked at this earlier and in these examples, such as the one we looked at earlier,

the recurrent neural network, which uses sentiments from movie database.

We could easily replace the data set with one of these glue.

More difficult data sets. The problem can be easily solved with bag of words approach.

It's obvious, but still it's a good approach using being able to use that RNA for such a problem.

Now there are additional data sets. Here regarding this neural network machine translation.

And you can get more data here. We are using example program from there.

Now in order to get some models you might need hugging face off token, but these are model related.

And this. I'm using this notebook as an excuse to provide this information.

You can get the tokens from hugging Face. Uh, and I have these tokens, for example, that, uh, I can use so that my notebook can get the models,

the ones, especially the ones that require this kind of credential.

Now back to the notebook. If you have git by the way, it will store it in git.

And this cell here can log in and then store that credential here.

So when you run any notebook on that machine with the credential in git on that machine, you can get the model easily if you use GPU.

But some problems CPU are okay. You should try your CPU first.

If you have a good GPU, you can also try that first. It's a good idea to have the model parts.

In this fashion, these three before anything and any model you get, they will use it.

By the way, this particular notebook doesn't use a model, but we could.

We could get a transformer model to solve this problem easily.

Well, let's load that particular glue model our data set from data sets.

Actually, you can get the data. Here are the number of rows. Supposedly this data should be exactly as the melt data from glue.

Now we looked at sequence to sequence translation in our slide deck.

Sequence to sequence translation is like this. And this is the auto autoencoder like ABC.

Look at the error, the reconstructed ABC and auto encoders.

Why it is auto because it uses the same auto term.

Is the same sequence used again, especially in time series.

Now in a translation. In generative text.

This is the prompt. This is the input language and this is the output language.

And this is the generated text. This state is the last state of the encoder.

And this last state is based on everything that the encoder has seen to that point.

If you have arenas here is here then that final state is fed to the context.

This can be multiplication. This can be addition or concatenation.

In the code here the the attention is computed.

Basically the alignment scores of the h and the input and the h.

And the last hidden state is concatenated to that doubling.

And then that is used as the context vector. You can put another linear layer here reduce the dimensions.

And each of these layers would be like a classifier or like a projection like a dot product.

This is very typical. And you can also convert this to a classifier by changing this part to a single value.

Hidden is generated and then connect the linear layer. Do use it as a classifier.

Perfectly okay. We looked at this earlier.

Uh, and here is the original code based on sequence to sequence translation.

And of course, like everyone else's code, it's difficult to follow all of these.

Supposedly, in these notebooks we have simpler.

Now, this notebook is self-contained. We have Lang and NMT dataset classes.

Lang is the language and as you see name word to index, word to count the tokens.

I cannot use the tokens just like that. I have to use their integers.

And generally they are longs for long.

And I also need index to even word to index, because if the word is given, I have to be able to generate the index.

And then if index is given because the classifier will output those indices.

Then in order to get back to original token or word, I have to use the index two words.

I have three spatial tokens go at the beginning.

It starts in this fashion go and then it goes.

That's the start of the token. It kind of decoder knows how to initialize with that go token.

If you remove it, will it work? It will. The probabilities will be different, but it won't be perfect.

And every sequence there's an iOS. As soon as the OS is generated, you stop and then that's your output.

And probably after iOS we have padding.

So when you look at the data and here are some examples.

Number of sequences French to English.

And these are sequence pairs. Number of size of vocabulary of English 38.

Number of number of words in English. French to English, uh.

Cardinality of the vocabulary, size or vocabulary. Number of unique words 2460.

And this is the exact coding three which is.

Goal. Which is the first letter.

Goal is not dash. We can put the goal here.

But this one didn't work and I put to go. Well, this particular transformer places the go at the front for the output.

So it will be go 3456, seven.

You are very attractive. And then 12345.

12345. Period is seven.

And then iOS. And then the rest will be padding. This particular notebook uses variable length.

It is not fixed. That's why the batch size has to be one.

And some of the tensor operations there are one hidden size is 128.

Problem old enough and get the class vectorized false.

You should analyze this code a bit. Most of them are filtering, but vectorize is here.

If it is vectorized then it makes it appends it such as this one.

Normally this could be gore and then language sequence related to the pair and then filled with part.

So that would be the vectorized one, and I should not learn that in the vectorized version.

I can also use the loss ignore those paths.

But here, this is exactly what the input will be for this particular encoder decoder.

Now you should match the encoder and decoder directly to the block diagram.

Nothing difficult here. The encoder does the embedding.

Remember we were using glove. In this case this lookup table will learn the vocabulary and then convert it to hidden.

And this will be optimized end to end. This will be optimized.

Uh in this particular training. It is not end to end.

But when I connect the hidden to the decoder, when I optimize it, it will be end to end and end to end.

Optimization is always very powerful. We should consider end to end if possible after embedding layer round the group.

And that's it. So this is the first section encoder section below an entire thing.

And now the attention is on the decoder part. But it's it's okay.

Normally the encoder can have an attention decoder can have an attention dot.

That's general. This particular notebook does a sequence to sequence learning with attention in a very simplistic but still teaching manner.

So the forward do the embedding adjusts the batch sizes accordingly and then outputs the hidden.

And outputs after the unannounced sell. And that's it.

And this is the end. So if you remember from the previous lecture, it is not the last one,

but it's the enter and I have to initialize the in it when this starts and in it has to be in the training or somewhere in the uh,

encoder for example. Well, the decoder is like that, but it has more parts embedding and then attention.

This is the first layer. And then you see this is the context the action and the attention of course.

Or in this case these are the alphas. And the E's are being learned.

This is from the slides. And I'm still I'm running a guru guru, this entire decoder here.

Thus the attention mechanism plus the attention here.

This is also an RNA. It captures its own sequence context.

This is very typical.

That's why you can replace this one blue and or orange with a transformer with an attention layer, because the entire thing is transformer.

And you can also use another attention here replacing this one.

When we replace these with attention, general attention, for example,

we do not do it iteratively, but rather this entire thing is done with a matrix multiplication.

So one two matrix multiplication done one two matrix multiplication done.

But that's why the size of, uh, this neural network actually increases by a magnitude.

This it will be increased in the order of the sequence length here.

I don't care because it is done iteratively there.

I will be doing this at once. It will be paralyzed.

That's a benefit. But that's why I also need batched and sequence vectorized.

So the order will be batch sequence length in this case ten for example.

And then embedding size. This also matches the assignment.

Now going back to the decoder. Let's look at the math.

Once the output is done, it is passed through a linear layer to be able to classify that sequence into.

Class labels, which are in this case output sequence token IDs.

So the input is here. In the decoder encoder part.

The input is literally a sequence of integers which represent the input sequence, and in the decoder at the output, it is a single token integer.

As the output of the decoder will run for the duration of the input sequence to be able to extract every token on the output,

and these output tokens will be corresponding to the second sequence.

Now look at the look at the math computation. Get the output embedding.

This is decoder part encoder generated.

The encoder and decoder are connected through a channel. That's why end to end optimization is possible.

But this network here doesn't implement in that fashion.

It is separate. And a chance is passed from the encoder.

Output sequence embedding. Apply dropout.

And then start doing the read. Run the RNA for the duration of the output sequence.

And I start doing the yellow orange. I will get the attention layer's final output.

And the encoder outputs as matrix multiplication.

And then I make them into weights.

Alphas. So that I can use these alphas to compute the actual attention.

Now this will be the actual attention or the context vector, and then I'll concatenate the context vector with the h1.

You might think that I already have h1 right, but that is.

Uh, computed according to the attention with respect to the input sequence.

So the attention is different. That's the context.

The context is determined by the input sequence context.

And n is determined by the input sequence. I have two entities there.

The think of something like the sentence and the context of the sentence.

Its relation to other words. For example, the sequence can be.

I studied computer size for words and the context could be a person entity like me,

and then past tense, and then some field, some computing field abacus.

The second would be the context. You see they are different from the original words.

So h n is based on the actual sequence, and context is based on the context of the sequence.

Those two things are concatenated and then passed to the decoder side.

All I need is get that hidden. Through the context classifier linear layer, which is here w c.

Its input is two times higher than output is sedan. It's a single linear layer.

And then once that is computed, pass it through hyperbolic tangent and then pass it through another output layer for classification

w y and then pass it through log softmax so that it will be probabilities and log is preferred.

Because these numbers are very low, we prefer negative numbers after log, which has more precision than float points.

Numbers. And then same thing with the in it.

Now these encoder and decoder are created here. The data set size shuffle false intentionally and the training is run only once one pass.

Uh, actually, we have to check if the train epoch is one.

Plus there's no epoch. It's one pass. And.

Set the optimizers. You can also set Adam W.

Set the loss function as a loss.

It needs a, b, c tensor shape, b being batch C being classes number of classes which is the size of output language cardinality.

Now the training is also a little bit tricky. For every sequence.

Pair one by one. Run the optimizer.

And the first part is. Encoded onto the sequence and as soon as the sequence stops ended there.

So this is variable length not fixed.

This cannot be batched easily. I have to convert those into vectorized sequences first.

And now once the encoder is done, capture the encoder.

Pass it to the decoder. Start creating the input sequence.

The first element will be called token. This is also typical.

This kind of initializes the decoder and for the duration of the output sequence, run the decoder.

Accumulate the loss. And these two losses are.

Added up, but the loss is coming from the other side.

Now when I pass. This loss to the encoder side because of this connection.

It will be, uh, done accordingly.

It will be done correctly. So the gradients are passed backwards.

Because all this network is connected and finished the decoding parts.

Encoding decoding part. Pass the loss round your optimization on those two steps.

Accumulate the loss for information that it this run slow.

It is one by one. That's why it is not batch by batch.

Then they convert it to batch. It will also run strongly.

Now evolution has to imitate the training.

Encoder decoder models and then run the sequence.

Similarly here generate the hidden layer latent space space and then start generating the output.

Start with core token. Run it. And now, for every token.

The dam generating take the highest probability.

And generate the next one. Still using.

The previous one. How? By passing it here, the coder, the input and the input is being updated.

It starts with gore. It goes to the next, it goes to the next.

It goes to the next one by one. It is not vectorized.

And then, uh, the rest is just comparison.

As you see, the, uh, it's not perfectly doing it.

Some of these are correct. Hundred percent. Second and third, for example.

And every time you run it, it will be different output.

I suggest run the training, save the model and then load the model and then play with this part.

And by the way, if you pass second or third time. 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes.

This will be much, much better output here. Now plot the attention.

The attention is already there. All I need is pulling from the decoder side where it is also returns.

As you see, the output is returned.

Hidden state is returned and attention weights are returned as computed exactly as here.

So when I show these attention weights with the sequence,

there should be a correlation between the input sequence and the output sequence with respect to these attentions.

So that's exactly what's happening here. When I look at the heatmap the input sequence top output sequence I know am not.

Compar. For.

Thomas Murray. Actually, this is incorrect.

That's why the attention is a little bit off. But some of these are napping.

The second one. I think the snatch.

Uh, by the way, I was looking at the wrong one. Uh, the first one is string is here.

The second string is here. So she l.

Is. She's a. So this s could be e two.

Throw this a match. Perfect. Put. It should be throw.

So that's not a match. And that's it. The third one.

It's the. It's a good match. Crain scared poor.

Should have been not. But it's not a match.

Maybe if you're on the second or third time this these would be better matches.

However, even in this shape, it works okay to me.

And that concludes our lecture. Thank you.

