[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Let's look at the transformer example. This is a full general attention regular transformer without the ordinance as we have seen before.

We need word embeddings. We need positional embeddings. The arena ones kind of capture the order.

But a general attention transformer without the arenas will not have that information.

But then we add the positional embeddings. It will keep the order.

There is no encoder. This is only decoder with the self-attention because it's autoregressive and transformer is much more stronger for sure.

At the cost of more complexity, more computation needs and more memory.

However, it's a much, uh. General approach than the one that we we have seen before.

We have to code the sample data, always start of sequence and or sequence.

And we might have sections like question.

Start end like middle, let's say end of question and then answer another marker.

And then class. We can even add a cluster and another marker.

And then we can feed that into the transformer.

It will basically learn how to do that. And by the way it doesn't have to be even same vector size.

The middle markers and the end markers can be anywhere as long as the vector is fixed size the inside vector.

Because a transformer uses tensors, batch fixed sequence size and embedding size is a regular tensor.

Order three tensor to be input to a transformer, and we will place padding after the last end of sequence, ideally.

Now this implementation here. Get the model size.

This is embedding size. And here embedding vocabulary size input output vocabulary size.

But this particular one is autoregressive. It is not like a translation problem.

And then here is the transformer decoder layer. Number of heads.

Number of words. Do not expand the transformer.

It will only add partitions to the transformer.

So it's a good idea to have multiple heads. Perhaps for it will add a bit complexity.

That's it. Decoder and other decoder.

We have to look up, uh, the PyTorch modules to understand the API.

This particular example uses transformer decoder layer.

And transformer decoder. Then we look at the torch API, such as transformer layers.

We can look up the transformer decoders and transformer decoder layer.

So these are the ones that we will use. Set sequence length positions.

They will be added additively. Numerically. Series the embedding.

Plus equals position embeddings. Transformer generates a proper map so that we will not see the future values decoded.

Fully connected layer out. This is always typical like a classifier.

So we will feed the output of the transformer which are the attention weights, or let's say attention values.

Weights are already learned here. Pass it through the layer for logits and the output size will be also vocabulary size.

And we can see them here. This is the output size and this is the input size, vocabulary size and the rest.

This little program does the full general attention vocabulary size.

Learn vocabulary. Simple. Here is the model had a very small transformer of course, because this is just a toy but still fully capable.

This can be expanded to learn how to talk, say movie reviews from IMDb that it looked at earlier.

Transformer text generator. Here are some sentences.

Start end tokenizers run it. The vocabularies, uh, for example.

We can also build this dynamically, like in the named dataset class we looked at before.

Run it. Learn it. That's it. Uh.

And generate. I love NLP, and this is, uh, regular.

It learns how to do. I love an LP, of course.

Uh, but this particular program can easily be expanded to do anything.

Transformer can do. The next example, we're looking at the GPT model directly from Huggingface.

It's a strong model. Let's look at how this looks in Huggingface.

Is. You see, uh, we create these modal parts.

Uh, data cache. So this will be downloaded, and it's not a tiny one.

Probably this is what we are using. As you see here, the pipeline actually hides it from us.

We just get the model name, which is GPT two. That's it. But what does it get?

We have to dig in the Huggingface pipeline and transformer interface to see what is actually being downloaded.

However, probably something like this. Very close.

And as you see, 127 million, it's not big.

For example, Lama has seven B which can run on a 3090 like GPU.

And uh, this is a good one. It's also very popular.

17 million. This GPT is the information is here.

We can also look up what kind of data it's it has seen to learn.

And by the way, there are also API examples. This page gives that information 40 GB of of text and others.

Uh, vocab size of 50 K. Uh.

Two 5063. It starts at home.

You can do this if you have the server. It's not a huge GPT from full training and these are some results.

So we are using this example. If possible, you should switch to FP floating point 16.

This one doesn't allow that. And let's go back to the notebook.

Get the model. Look at the model. Embedding.

And this is the vocabulary size. You can match it embedding size of 768.

This is normal I think. It shouldn't be less than this.

Maybe 512. But it shouldn't be more than this. Definitely.

In other embedding positions dropout.

This is also typical to always place dropout. To make it robust.

And the modules there's an attention and other dropouts.

And then normalization con one the. This is interesting commonly layer normalization and linear.

All sizes are 768, as you see.

And the output size is also the same as inputs, because we want to generate text and then use the model directly.

There are some parameters you can dig in the API and see what kind of parameters there are, and then use it.

Now. Prompt I love an output. It will answer accordingly.

It will generate. You can also specify many things here,

like the temperature which which only adjusts the output probabilities in my opening temperature would not increase in creativity or anything,

but it will reduce the probability dependance.

It will not take top shape by only looking at the probabilities just like that.

But when we shape those probabilities by adjusting the softmax through the temperature, then, uh, it will be more, let's say realistic.

Run it. And as you see, I'll have an LP.

No no no no no. That's the answer. It goes like that.

So this is pretty good. But of course you can also do the same thing with other models.

If you go to the models here. If you go to the text generation.

And good luck digging it. There are lots of super models here.

I would use most likes. And as you see there are meta OpenAI.

All the big players Mistral, Google, Microsoft Nvidia.

Here is Microsoft. You can also say most downloads.

And then get one suitable to your computing platform and then start generating.

That's it. Next we will look at Lang Chain.

