[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
In this particular example, we are looking at land chain framework to do some pipelining, to do some large language model.

Building information would be here long chain API.

And also documentation. There are also tutorials and examples.

And of course this is an ongoing development. So every week when you look at these API or web pages you will see updates.

It's not like we are promoting a particular API or framework here,

but rather one of the frameworks that can help you to build a language model quickly.

Now in this example, as you see, we install the Anaconda environment.

Always look up uh, what the package, uh, for example how it is downloaded.

Use conda forge is okay. A more mature package would be directly in Anaconda.

And as you see it has 600 uh K downloads.

So that shows popularity and a little bit perhaps reliability.

So I would trust this library because it's used by so many people.

Reputation. And next what we will do is create a corpus and build a large language model here.

Actually it's a tiny language model from this corpus.

But the point is, I'm building my own model from scratch.

And the trigram model using all this corpus tokens start and end markers, as you see here, this is the start and this is the end.

And I'm building the trigram probabilities in a very simplistic manner.

So trigram model is here. Build trigram model.

That's a method. This is used by the class here.

It's a custom alarm. And the point is, nothing, um, can be simpler than this model.

And we will use the Lang chain. Uh, in order to use this model.

And more. By the way, you can easily replace these with your own large language model.

Maybe using prompt. Using pipeline. One of the Huggingface models.

Now for this class it has to match some of the properties of um Lang chain.

By the way, these models like OpenAI, GPT, cohere, or Huggingface model would be kind of typical.

So let's focus on this one. Uh, it would include model name.

It would include, uh, temperature, max tokens and API key.

These fields. Properties. Methods cover for a variety of API and in here alarm type identifying parameters call.

Do some operations like. Lower. Prompt, lower. Prompt will be passed here.

And it's of type string. It's always a good idea to have the type helpers for parameters stop optional list.

Uh, it continues like this. Generate the tokens. And of course this will be coming from the original trigram model here.

And it's a dictionary. Get context words properties.

Next word random choices. If next word is stop slash s end of sequence or stop and next word.

So this follows the alarm. And the alarm is the base alarm of length chain.

And by the way this approach is typical typical software engineering.

It's basically a wrapper class to follow certain methods and class variables so that land chain can run it.

Are basically plugging in our custom alum into their pipeline, into their pipeline, API or pipeline framework.

Continuing in this fashion, this n-gram alarm will be our alarm and then we will just chain it.

This is the pipe. Is in Linux shell.

Create the alarm template prompt.

These are also similar to how we use the pipelines from Huggingface.

Generate text. It will start with a list and then expect it to finish third with respect to the properties.

And here a list is here.

This is in other places. So one of them will start trading on that.

And this is my corpus. Trigrams are generated from this corpus.

Continuous continuing like this. Um, generated text.

Prompts, different prompts. And I'm basically after this, uh, chaining, which is inherent to that chain.

And as you see, the prompt is of type prompt template.

Alarm is of type editor. And all of both of these are coming from the Lang chain base.

Continuing in this fashion. Uh prompts prompt prompt.

And these are the outputs by the way. Note that this will be similar to a Markov chain because I build the trigram accordingly.

I could easily replace that trigram with the attention neural network we showed earlier.

That concludes long chain. Thank you.

