[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
It takes a generation.

Generative AI is a rapidly evolving field that enables machines to generate humanlike text based on patterns learned from vast amounts of data.

Text generation is a crucial aspect of generative AI,

with applications ranging from chatbots and virtual assistants to content creation and automated report generation.

I'm sure you use GPT in your courses. The evolution of text generation techniques has moved from traditional statistical methods,

such as Ngrams and Naive Bayes to deep learning approaches, including transformers and large language models.

These advancements allow AI systems to generate coherent, contextually relevant, and often creative text.

However, as models become more complicated.

Challenges like bias, hallucination, and computational costs also increase.

In this lecture, we will explore various text generation techniques, analyze their strengths.

Limitations, and discuss how frameworks like Land chain can be used to improve the accuracy and reliability of generated text.

The outline will be as follows. And of course, these methods are not complete.

One might add many text generation approaches to this.

And then these are the learning objectives. By the end of this module you'll be equipped with these.

Now. Let's look at text generation.

We looked at Markov chains. Takes generations a fundamental task in natural language processing, including question and answering.

Summarization. N-gram models they expect, they predict the next word based.

On the sequence itself. And the Markov assumption, which is incorrect, probably is the probability of the long sequence is the change probability.

Well, number one, it would be very difficult to compute that probability anyway a low number.

We wouldn't have all the world's data. Even these language models have it.

Markov chain wouldn't be proper to use it. Why?

Because it's distinct. It's not a neural network approximator.

Now let's focus on N-gram models. The N-gram model is one of the simplest and most widely used.

It is clinical in NLP. It predicts the next word in a sequence based on the previews and words and many words.

For instance, a bigram model n equals two. The model predicts each word based only on the only one.

Preceding is a trigram model and equals three.

The prediction considers the two previous words or tokens.

A token can be numerical. A token can be anything. It doesn't have to be a word necessarily.

This approach is computationally efficient, easy to implement because it's only trigrams,

making it useful in applications like autocomplete, speech recognition, typographical corrections.

However, N-gram models struggled with capturing long range dependencies because they only consider a fixed context window.

It's not variable. It's not long. It's not dynamic.

Generated text often lacks coherent logical flow, especially for longer passages.

Actually, we looked at these in some assignments, and grammar does require extra extensive training because there are distinct probability models.

They are absolute. They are not approximated.

Now ensuring sufficient coverage.

We have to train them much, much more than any other methods.

However, they are very simple. They are. The core basis takes generation approaches.

Now let's look at Naive Bayes model. It's a probabilistic model often used for text classification, but can also be applied to text generation.

It assumes the words appear independently.

Well, of course we know that strong it's conditioned on a given category or context and simplifies probability calculations.

In text generation, the model predicts the most likely word at each step based on the properties derived from a training corpus.

We always need a training corpus. Naive Bayes models are efficient and effective for simple text prediction tasks.

The first thing you should use in a classifier model would be Naive Bayes.

We know that. And of course, the incorrect assumption is the words are independent, but we use embeddings to keep them dependent.

So in a way we scratched both N-gram models and Naive Bayes.

Now still, it's important to learn these in order to compare and contrast.

Let's focus on Laplace smoothing. One common problem in text generation, particularly in n-gram and naive Bayes approaches,

is that they assign a probability of zero to unseen word sequences.

The issue arises when the training data does not contain a particular phrase in embeddings.

That's not a problem. Now, in Naive Bayes without embeddings, it's a problem.

It's impossible for the model to generate that particular word.

So in order to cover that, we use Laplace smoothing by adding a small constant value,

typically one to all possible word counts in a way ensuring that even unseen words receive a small epsilon probability.

This technique improves the robustness, but does not fully overcome the data sparsity problem.

Only embeddings can. And I know I'm repeating this three times now.

Every transformer. The state of the art model has an embedding in the input sequence and output sequence.

Laplace smoothing is widely used in basic language modeling applications.

A simple probability distribution is sufficient. It's also very explainable.

Neural networks are not explainable. So text based spam detection.

Predictive typing systems. These are easy to do with Naive Bayes.

Now we have the much more powerful approach today.

Transformers. We looked at sequence to sequence models.

Transformers revolutionized text generation by replacing sequential processing with parallel processing through self-attention mechanisms.

It's self-attention because it looks the sequence. That's input.

It's auto autoregressive. Unlike the recurrent neural networks, the process takes sequentially because others have to iterate on the sequence.

Transformers can analyze an entire sequence at once, making them significantly more efficient at the cost of memory footprint.

The self-attention mechanism allows the model to weigh the importance of different words in a sentence,

so it understands the context more effectively.

This approach led to development of powerful models like GPT, which is generative pre-trained transformer.

It can generate humanlike text with remarkable fluency.

Transformers are now widely used in applications such as conversational AI, machine translation,

automated content creation significantly outperforming traditional methods, and they exceed them in speed and quality.

And we all use GPT. Transformer architecture.

It consists of an encoder and decoder similar to the sequence mapping we looked at earlier.

The encoder processes the input sequence and learns contextual relationships using multi-head self-attention, which is below.

And it learns through feedforward layers. Those are like classifiers or feature extractors.

They extract the hidden state, those states connecting here.

That is the information kind of the context about the input sequence.

Now the decoder generates text by attending to both encoded input coming states.

Which is previous to generate the tokens and. Other information coming here.

Now. The self-attention mechanism enables the model to capture long range dependencies.

It is effective for tasks like summarization.

Call generation. Unlike earlier sequence models.

Transformers do not rely on recurrence. Our sequence to sequence notebook does recurrence.

In order to show the utility. But our goal is coming from the classical times Markov chains and then recurrent neural networks.

And then coming to here understanding the attention mechanism which replace all of these and why they are strong and important.

The architecture here is now the foundation of state of the art language models,

providing the backbone for systems like GPT, Bert, and millions of hugging face models.

Transforming implantation. We looked at this code a bit.

It is similar to the original code. The encoder is same.

Even the comments should be same. And we are using a GRU, not a Lstm.

Guru is much more efficient and almost same performance with Lstm and single head attention.

This is a manual implementation of query key value and as you see the keys are coming here.

States. And the query are coming here.

The values are coming here. And this Curie can be used on the key and new values can be generated.

And there are three attention layers here as you see.

And these layers might have multiple layers themselves.

And even the transformer layer in neural network PyTorch module it has attention and it has also an MLP.

So it is kind of an encapsulating this entirely with multiple layers on board.

Understanding transformer implementations is in here.

It's crucial for fine tuning and alarms for specific tasks.

Now the General Detention decoders. In a way, it is replacing the regular decoders on the sequence to sequence mapping.

You should compare this code to the other one. The input the same input sequence.

Input output sequence processing is same. The forward takes the embedding.

Does the dropout. Computes the attention weights according to the attention layer here.

Pass it to the RNA. Remember, we don't replace CNN's, we only replace the attention.

Layer here with the attention from PyTorch.

And much easier to follow this. Attention output plus embeddings.

And it will be true in a nutshell. Log.

Max. Pass it through the final classifier and that will be my output sequence.

This is only replacing the sequence to sequence mapping,

but we will see in the lecture notebook we will use the completely self-contained attention without ordinance.

100% conforming to this architecture. In order to process some corpus and then be able to generate text in a very simplistic manner.

But we if we expand that implementation, it will be able to generate complicated, sophisticated text.

Large language models. They are the AI models trained on massive data sets.

10 trillion tokens. Vocabulary size of 5 million.

Hugging face have has many pages related to this, and these AI models can understand and generate text with humanlike fluency.

These models such as OpenAI, GPT, Google can write essays, generate code, translate languages, even engage in meaningful conversations.

Their effectiveness depends on the quality of the training data.

Like in any other machine learning approach and of course computational resources, they will require many, many GPUs.

The entire neural network has to fit in the GPU memory to be effective.

GPU memory is ten times faster than regular memory, and the bias and high energy consumptions are,

of course, risk because the bias will come from training data.

The weight is labeled and the energy consumption can be a lot.

But in my opinion, the energy consumption in our worlds are mostly coming from other uh uh, situations.

Like I'm sure heating and transportation is several magnitudes larger than just training AI models.

In addition, in Huggingface models there are millions of models and they are based on already trained models.

So we are reusing the models created by meta, Microsoft, Google, Nvidia and others.

Rather than vortex generation.

Large language models are class of deep learning models designed to process generate humanlike text, and they are built by transformer architectures.

So the transformer architecture literally does this kind of mapping.

If you add input output sequences separately, then what you do is the output sequence probability will be dependent on the input context,

um, and some sequence elements that are in the output.

So we know we will be only replacing this autoregressive models to multiple sequence.

And same thing. What do we need with the GPT?

Well, pre-training on very large corpora.

Fine tuning for specific tasks. Fine tuning will be easy.

And when we reach the rag retrieval augmented generation, you will see that when we add the rag, even we don't have to pre-trained use the already.

I mean, uh, we don't have to fine tune.

We always need pre-training.

And we use these pre-trained models, uh, either as a, as they are with rags, or we fine tune them for our specific problems.

Yeah. This is the way of text generation or any text related problem solution these days.

And Huggingface have many, many models. To start.

And the labs have made significant advancements. They are content generated content.

Their practical implementation, um, they are they are fine tuning is crucial.

Or now it's not if you use a rag. But we have to, no matter what, make their outputs relevant, reliable and aligned.

So the following lectures will cover all these such as prompt engineering.

Constraining. Uh, a gigantic eye and also rags.

Of course. Negative aspects. I'm sure you heard the word hallucination.

Despite their powerful capabilities, they come with challenges.

One major concern is computational expense. We talked about this and the other one is data inefficiency.

For example, they need enormous datasets. We have them. But one researcher was saying we hit a block.

We finished all the data that we can use. Maybe that's not true.

Maybe a genetic AI. We will use multiple multiply to, uh, do interesting stuff as teamwork.

Another critical issue. Very important bias propagation.

Biases present in training data, potentially leading to unethical or misleading outputs.

They also suffer from lack of true understanding.

Or are they? Even Kasparov said, when in a smart match with deep blue, sometimes quantity becomes quality.

And Kasparov himself was saying, I felt like I'm playing with a human being or some entity.

Uh, I'm not 100% sure. As an instructor opinion.

I'm stating this, that the true understanding is a factor, especially with very large models.

Uh, they may feel like they have some kind of understanding.

Any difficult question? Any paradoxical question.

I found them, uh, that they are answering. Okay.

And I wonder what happens in a year's time. And this lecture is 2025 right now.

March. I wonder what will happen in a year's time.

Well, the opacity, of course, can make it difficult to interpret how they arrive at certain decisions.

Opacity might be important, regardless of true understanding or anything, because it's related to, uh, bias.

It may be related to some other things.

And of course, ongoing efforts improve efficiency, reduce bias, and enhance their trustworthiness in real world applications.

That will be an ongoing effort. Hallucination in large language models.

Hallucination. Large language model occurs when the model generates plausible sounding but incorrect or misleading information.

This phenomenon is one of the biggest challenges maybe was it undermines trust and reliability,

especially in high stakes stakes applications like health care law, scientific research.

Well, neural network networks are functional approximators.

They will not answer anything with formalism.

Maybe we should add formalism to our transformer approaches so that these large language models will be constrained.

Several factors include include such as, uh, training data limitations.

Vast but finite patterns.

Maybe they do not understand those patterns.

Maybe they have an inherent understanding of what is true or false, or modal encounters the gap in its knowledge and try to fill in the blanks.

Learn pattern, but not factually accurate. Another factor is, of course, like I said, approximation.

Probabilistic nature of at a glance. These models do not retrieve facts that a way a database would.

Instead, they predict the next word in a sequence based on statistical likelihood.

This method makes them highly flexible, but also mean means they can sometimes produce responses which sound correct but completely fabricated.

Lack of external grounding formalism.

Maybe we can add formalism. In addition.

Uh. We may have ambiguity in usage prompts.

The model may attempt to generate responses by making assumptions rather than asking for clarification in practical applications.

Hallucinations can be dangerous. Imagine AI generated medical diagnosis.

Sounds confident, but entirely incorrect. Understanding the causes of fascination is crucial, of course.

Fact checking mechanisms. Integrating external knowledge sources.

Improving prompt engineering and formalism.

We can use formal methods to improve them. In the next section we will look at how to counteract hallucination.

Fact checking. Fine tuning on domain data. External knowledge.

Human in the loop. Reinforcement learning. Post-processing filters.

Accepting hallucination in creative applications.

Yeah, maybe it is. Important.

And creative applications because we want. Them to be creative.

There are some papers. For example, truthful coupé measuring car models mimic human falsehoods.

You can look up these papers. You can also make a Google search or any other search.

Mitigating bias. Misinformation retrieval.

Augmented generation. This is a very hot ongoing research area.

Fine tuning strategies for reducing calcination explainability in AI.

Now, one last topic. We also have a notebook section for this one.

Long chain language chain is the framework that allows developers to build powerful,

AI driven applications by chaining together various components of a language model pipeline.

It enables structured text generation, memory based interactions, and retrieval augmented generation to improve accuracy.

Businesses use long chain for automated customer support today.

Document summarization. Of course, interactive AI systems is an AI assistant, so it's a valuable tool.

It's being developed and we will look at that shortly.

This concludes this particular lecture. We will look at three notebooks now.

Thank you.

