[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
In this particular example, we are looking at an N-gram model.

This is the typical classical traditional N-gram model.

We covered this in the lecture and it is way far to Gpt3 GPT four like models.

However, it's important to now understand how this associate to what we have learned so far.

We will always work with a corpus. We should process.

Sentence by sentence. Or it may be also important.

You take the tokens in a consecutive manner, like text generation.

Period. You. Why? Because maybe three grams.

Not obvious, but ten grams. If you have ten grams, for example, the relation between the sequences ah can be captured.

Otherwise it will be always starting from zero I and then ending with the period.

Or like the transformer or language models, to put a starter marker here and put an end marker here and also learn them.

So the probability of a starter marker after a period will be high.

And the particular approach here is kind of similar to what we did with the Markov chain.

These probabilities are just list. The data structure won't carry you.

Of course it's not scalable. However, that shows the points.

And in a real scenario we would use like Markov chain lecture a full sparse matrix but better use approximation.

Neural network approximation.

Now naive Bayes text generation in here it's a little bit different because we have two classes and the Naive Bayes learning.

The probabilities are based on two classes. Is it any different from bigrams or engrams?

Not so much, but this is another angle. Prepare the corpus such as this.

Positive. Negative. We looked at movie reviews.

Positive negative. That can out a lot. Get the vocabulary.

We always tokenize in text always because the original data is in string.

We have to convert those strings to integers, but the actual data structures data type will be long.

Actually, torch will expect a long 64 bit.

So those are long tensors.

Single value. And they will be they will clear the indices.

Word counts. Class word. Class word counts.

Typical processing. Vocabulary size.

All of these would be handled by, uh, the utilities that we use with the language models.

They always come with a tokenizer. And that tokenizer will carry all this information preprocessing IDs.

But the embedding will be on the model.

Here there's no embedding. Of course these are pure probabilities.

Generate text to generated word is a list for the length of five.

Give. Take the highest probability starting with something.

Because it's Laplace smoothing, the probability is not zero.

So if. At the beginning.

Uh, it will start randomly from one word in order to help it.

You may provide a word saying that. Start with this word so that it's recursively autoregressive.

We will use the words that generate it and the words that you provided at the beginning to generate sequences.

Random choices among these with weights probabilities. This is a typical effective way of generating the word.

And here are the generated words. As you see, they are not um.

Meaningful. Even this dislike should be positive, but it is seen in the dislike should be negative, but it is seen in the positive group.

That's why it's placed here. Is class dislike dislike.

So it's totally, uh, not useful.

And of course, the vocabulary is tiny, but this module here, this engine is the way to go.

You should be able to read these and then imagine the algorithm.

Very straightforward. Next we will look at transformers.

